In this note, I have listed what I hope to convey
during the BuildInstaller's  1st webex.

You will need the following software:
Eclipse for Java Developers
MSVC2017
Advanced Installer
Java JDK (32-bit and 64-bit Windows).  You will need version 202.
In addition, notepad++ is almost always useful.

I suggest that before the webex, you;
Install Java JDK 202
Install Eclipse
Uninstall old versions of Java (both JRE and JDK, both 32Bit and 64Bit)
Install MSVC2017 (this takes quite a while)

Eclipse is free.
MSVC2017 is not free, but has a 6-month trial period.
Advanced Installer is not free, but has a 1-month trial period.
Java JDK is still free as far as I can tell.

We will retrieve the repo Sws22 from within Eclipse,
build java and C++ parts, the code for Java 202,
and build an installer.  Contact Young
or Jim if you want to view this with a "hands-on"
experience; they are admins for the Sws22 repository and
they can add you.

We will then:
Update Netcdf-C
Update 3rd-party Java libraries
Rebuild the installer.

​We will cover:
1. Compiling the code and installing a "patch jar"
   in C:/SAROPS/SIM64 for testing purposes.
2. Building a new installer.
3. Checking out and in code, using git-within-Eclipse.
   You can use git outside of Eclipse if you wish.
4. Updating the version string.  This is optional and
   only useful if you want to be sure which version some-
   body's output came from
5. A basic overview of Advanced Installer's script.
   This is the easiest way of learning what all the
   components of SIM/Planner are (e.g., how land fits
   in, SimCaseManager.properties, SimLib, etc.

At the end of the webex, you should be able to:
1. Build an Eclipse Workspace from the respository Sws22.
2. Keep the 3rd party java libraries up-to-date
3. Keep java updated
4. Keep Netcdf-C updated
5. Build the files that Adv Installer is looking for
6. Run Adv Installer to create an installer
7. Use git-within-Eclipse to change the code
   and check it in (only within Eclipse)

Tom
571 344 8489